#CS2 #CS2-1
Unit 2 - Data Transmission and encryption
Unit 2.1 - Types and methods of data transmission

# Data Transmission
Streams of bytes are hard to understand on their own while transmitting data, so we need to break them up into smaller packets with metadata which makes it easier to understand its purpose.

## IP Packet Structure
An Internet protocol packet is made out of 3 main parts.
- Packet Header
- Payload
- Trailer

The header has most of the information. Destination, Origin point and the Packet ID. These packet headers can also have other data that is required to get to its destination.
Usually a header doesn't exceed 20 bytes in size.

## Serial Data Transmission
This relies on one bit of a packet being sent at a time. The next bit doesn't get sent until the previous one is received. Slower but more secure.

Advantages of serial:
- It only require one wire for the data themselves, making it be more cost effective. This also reduces data loss risk or skewing and crosstalk.
Disadvantages of Serial:
- Its very slow, especially in the past where we didn't have the necessary technology for it to be a viable method.

## Parallel Data Transmission
You send multiple bits of a packet at the same time. This is faster then serial data transmission. However, it has some cons such as lines may interfere with each other causing it to give a incorrect output. It also does not give them out in order, making them have to be reordered. This is called skewing.

Advantages of Parallel:
- Its faster and is still reliable over short distances of speed.
Disadvantages of Parallel:
- Data loss / Data being out of sync is very common at higher distances.

---

## Packet Routing
A stream of packets need a receiver to go to. Although all of the packets don't need to take the same route as each other.

Routers act as internet traffic managers. The router pushes packets down a certain path. Routers also allow data to be **fault tolerant**. Packets will most likely arrive out of order, when the last one arrives they are recorded and used.

UDP is usually faster TCP.

### TCP - Transmission control Protocol.
This protocol makes sure that all of the data packets arrive correctly.
It creates a digital signature which make sure that all the packets have arrived to let the server know how many packets are there.

### UDP - User datagram Protocol.
UDP allows there to be packet loss, unlike TCP or SCTP.
Time-sensitive applications often use UDP because dropping packets is preferable to waiting for packets delayed due to retransmission of the bits, which may not be an option in a real-time system.

--- 

## Routing methods.
Packets need to be sent from an origin computer to a destination computer.

### Simplex 
This is a one way connection from a sender to a reciever only the sender may send bits over the connection to the receiver.

### Duplex 
This is a 2 way transmission for both machines, this allows them to be both a sender and recievers.

### Half Duplex
Like duplex, but only one side can transmit at once.

---

## USB - Universal Serial Bus
