Unit 2 - Data Transmission and encryption

Unit 2.1 - Types and methods of data transmission

# Data Transmission
Streams of bytes are hard to understand on their own while transmitting data, so we need to break them up into smaller packets with metadata which makes it easier to understand its purpose.

## IP Packet Structure
An Internet protocol packet is made out of 3 main parts.
- Packet Header
- Payload
- Trailer

The header has most of the information. Destination, Origin point and the Packet ID. These packet headers can also have other data that is required to get to its destination.
Usually a header doesn't exceed 20 bytes in size.

---

## Packet Routing
A stream of packets need a reciever to go to. Although all of the packets don't need to take the same route as each other.

Routers act as internet traffic managers. The router pushes packets down a certain path. Routers also allow data to be **fault tolerant**. Packets will most likely arrive out of order, when the last one arrives they are reorded and used.

UDP is usually faster TCP.

### TCP - Transimission control Protocol.
This protocol makes sure that all of the data packets arrive correctly.
It creates a digital signature which make sure that all the packets have arrived to let the server know how many packets are there.

### UDP - User datagram Protocol.
UDP allows there to be packet loss, unlike TCP or SCTP.
Time-sensitive applications often use UDP because dropping packets is preferable to waiting for packets delayed due to retransmission, which may not be an option in a real-time system.

## Routing methods.
Packets need to be sent from an origin computer to a destination computer.